Nine European vacation destinations to visit in 2025 if it's not your first time 9 April 2025 Buildings in Puglia, Italy, are shown on a cliff overlooking the
Mediterranean Sea From romantic retreats in the Mediterranean to fresh-air-filled Alpine
hikes, these are the most exciting areas of Europe to visit this year. While much of Europe is ripe with history, culture, cuisine and
breathtaking landscapes, some spots are particularly primed to welcome
visitors right now. This is not your typical all-time European getaway list; you won't find
Rome or London here. Paris made the cut because of its
post-Olympics peacefulness (plus the reopening of Notre Dame, an icon
that has finally found its voice ). Instead of a lifetime
bucket list, we've curated 2025-specific picks that will make this
year's holidays particularly memorable. Many of these are unsung
destinations free from the overcrowding that's caused tourism upheaval - and rows with locals - in highly touristed European cities
for the last several years. These are on-the-rise areas of Europe where you can experience iconic
cultural sites, spectacular hotels and outdoor adventures. From spending
days on the sun-soaked Mediterranean coast to climbing the highest
Alpine peaks, here are nine exciting European destinations to visit in 2025. Experts say that Italy's next hotspot is Puglia, situated at the
heel of the country's "boot" Experts say that Italy's next hotspot is Puglia, situated at the heel of
the country's "boot" 1. Puglia, Italy Puglia saw a 20% jump in international arrivals in
2024 with more than 15 million overnight stays - still a fraction of
Rome's 51 million. With two international airports (Bari and Brindisi)
and rising interest, now is the time to visit before word gets out much
further. "The heel of Italy's boot offers incredible value compared to the Amalfi
Coast with authentic masserie (farmhouse hotels) being converted into
luxury properties," says California-based travel advisor and
photographer Coco Tran . Tran recommends booking a table at cliff-side Osteria Sant'Anna and Lisbon , which experienced its best tourism year on record in 2024. "Portugal's Alentejo coast is finally getting deserved attention, with
its pristine beaches and fantastic wineries," says Tran. While many
travellers tack the region onto a trip to Lisbon or the Algarve, this
breathtaking section of coast is worth a dedicated journey - especially
for those seeking nature, history and adventure. Who picked the list? (Popular Saints' Festivals), a nationwide celebration of
Portugal's patron saints. Base yourself at Craveiral , three interconnected resorts that together offer 180km of skiable
terrain. And while the skiing is already supreme, Mike Goar, who is the
COO of mountain operations in Switzerland for Vail Resorts, says 2025
will see the investment of 110m Swiss francs (£89.5m) into mountain
improvements such as snowmaking, meaning it's only going to get better. However, this destination is not just for winter. In any season, you can
ride the Glacier Express train through the Alpine region, take a day
hike to the glacial Lago di Tom or visit the nearby Uri Alps for a
multi-day cycling trip. This region offers that small Alpine village
feel - including a seemingly endless supply of fondue - and fewer crowds
than its better-known Swiss counterparts. Stay at the luxurious Chedi
Andermatt for part of
the 1920s - is embracing its storied past with a series of celebratory
events. "The centennial anniversary of Fitzgerald's arrival makes this
legendary hotel more relevant than ever," says Andria Mitsakos, founder
of AMPR and the Chapelle Matisse
, nearby Slovenia
is quietly emerging as a smart alternative, offering spectacular
scenery, cultural depth and fewer crowds. With
Nova Gorica named a European Capital of Culture for 2025 , the timing couldn't be better to explore this captivating
nation. At just under 20,720sq km, Slovenia is a "small but mighty country",
says James Montie, branch manager at Fox World Travel 's fairytale setting
to the underground wonders of Postojna Cave", are a primary draw, he adds. More like this: The 25 best places to travel in 2025 Eight of the world's most extraordinary tiny hotel rooms Here's how to safely visit glacier sites around the world Independent travel advisor Kimberly Denison and it
was certified as the world's first green destination in 2016. To explore its glorious landscapes, hike Triglav National Park , but in
2025, it's the mainland that's set to shine - specifically the
outstretched fingers of the Peloponnese. Greece is investing heavily in
the region this year, upgrading infrastructure like the Mycenae road
network and directing funding towards sustainable agritourism and local
olive producers. The result for travellers is easier access, deeper
cultural connection and fewer crowds. Of the Peloponnese's three peninsulas, Mani - the rugged middle
finger - stands out. "Far from the Cycladic island buzz, Mani is Greece
; or relax on Voidokilia Beach on the west coast.
Mitsakos also recommends traditional villages like Milea, Rigklia and
Exoxhori for their vibrant folk feasts that are reviving local traditions. Best time to visit: Greece is packed in the summer, but thanks to the
mainland's slightly warmer temperatures, you can get away with a warm-
weather break with fewer crowds from April to June and September to October. The restored Notre-Dame Cathedral is ready to welcome
guests after a fire destroyed its roof in 2019 (Credit: Getty
Images)
The restored Notre-Dame Cathedral is ready to welcome guests after a
fire destroyed its roof in 2019 7. Paris, France Paris , which means the crowds have thinned and prices dipped back
down for 2025. Plus, travel here is now easier than ever; since 1
January 2025 reopening its doors at the
end of 2024. As for where to stay, the classic Hôtel du Savoir , driven in part by the rise of the "coolcation
" trend where travellers seek out more temperate
destinations for their summer getaways. With pristine landscapes, clean
air and progressive values, the Nordic nation fits the brief perfectly.
Even in the height of summer, temperatures rarely break 20C, making it a
compelling alternative to the heat of southern Europe. While many first-timers gravitate to Stockholm, the west coast remains a
wilder, more rugged alternative; think granite islands , salty air and seafood straight off the
boat. The long summer days and crisp nights create ideal conditions for
kayaking, hiking or just soaking up the Nordic light - minus the crowds
and queues of the capital. It's also a fantastic place for sustainability-minded travellers, with
Gothenburg , Sweden's second-largest city, recently awarded
the EU's Mission Label for its ambitious plans to become
climate-neutral by 2030. Check in at Hotel Pigalle beckons with low-impact adventures, island-hopping and
some of the best shellfish you'll ever taste. Best time to visit: June-August brings long daylight hours, with
sunsets at 22:00 and the best weather for coastal adventures. Albania's Accursed Mountains are said to rival the Alps (Credit:
)
Albania's Accursed Mountains are said to rival the Alps 9. Albania Albania has long been one of Europe's most underrated destinations, but
that's changing fast. Thanks to relaxed visa requirements and expanded
international flight routes, the country is quickly rising on the travel
radar. In 2024, Albania welcomed a record 11.7 million international
visitors , a surge driven in part by the global rise in interest in
lesser-known Mediterranean escapes -
which means that now is prime time to see this beautiful country before
it books up. "Albania is quickly gaining recognition for its mix of history,
unspoiled coastline and emerging food and wine scene," says Denison.
"The Unesco-listed town of Gjirokastër , the pristine beaches of the Albanian Riviera and the
vineyards of Berat create a Mediterranean escape that is still under the
radar but rapidly gaining momentum." New infrastructure projects are smoothing the journey (fewer potholes
are always a plus). Albania is also investing in luxury accommodations,
including the Green Coast Hotel near the Unesco World
Heritage site of Butrint , which is
set to provide unparalleled luxury nestled among the sea caves. "Albania
is poised to become a major player in luxury travel," Denison adds. While hotpots like Ksamil are growing in popularity, travellers who
venture just a little beyond the crowds are rewarded with clear
turquoise waters that rival the Greek Islands. Inland, the Accursed
Mountains ' dramatic landscapes draw
hikers and adventure seekers to the country's rugged north. Stylish
coastal stays like La Brisa Boutique Hotel (expected to open in 2028) signal that this Mediterranean
up-and-comer won't stay quiet for long. Best time to visit: The summer months are prime time in Albania - and
not yet experiencing the crowds of neighbours like Greece. The warm
weather makes for ideal beach, hiking and exploring conditions.